Internet 5.0 - Interneural Communication
########################################################################
:date: 2018-06-18 10:00
:author: jmercouris
:category: Uncategorized
:slug: collective-consciousness
:status: published
:description: As the internet brings us closer together, how will our
              definition of privacy change?

Abstract
========================================================================
The topic of privacy has frequently been discussed within the context of
digital information. What kind of information can individuals or
organizations collect from us, and how can they use it to gather
intelligence about our activities and behaviors? The purpose of this
paper therefore is to investigate privacy, and what privacy will mean as
technology advances and integrates more tightly with humans. The
definition of privacy will adapt and change based on our new involuntary
disclosure of information as gathered by new sensors and modalities.

The design of this study is strongly based on the structure of a
conceptual paper, with a secondary focus as a literature analysis. From
the context of a privacy framework, this paper analyzes the developments
of two converging developments: neural implants, and the internet of
things, and how these developments will reshape the definition of
privacy. By analyzing the existing literature in regards to definitions
of privacy, the advancements in technology in regards to modalities and
new information gathered, a new definition and evolution in privacy is
introduced and examined.

The findings of this paper indicate that as our technology approaches a
stage of tighter integration with the human psyche, more and more of our
thoughts will be available for analysis and communication. This paper
therefore argues that the new definition of privacy will be
significantly less expansive. An additional and important finding of
this paper is the coinage and definition of a new phenomenon: Internet
5.0 (an internet enabled collective consciousnesses embedded in our
pysche, connecting all humans together).

The value of this paper is in that it provides an insight into a
previously insufficiently examined future. If it comes to be that humans
are all interconnected via an Internet 5.0 type network, where all of
our thoughts are shared, significant attention will need to be applied
in the areas of privacy, and access control. Humanity will need to
rethink communication on a very fundamental level, and will have to
define privacy in a new way such that we do not violate the rights of
others an intimately interconnected digital age. 

Keywords
========================================================================
Keywords: future communication patterns, privacy, Internet 5.0, telepathy, mind to mind
communication, digital privacy

New Communication Patterns
========================================================================
The internet has dramatically shaped the amount and type of
communication that humans in engage in. It has resulted in an
exponential amount of data generated by humanity, currently at an
estimated 2.5 exabytes per day (Khoso, 2016). This represents one of
the fundamental driving forces in human social and technological
development.

Concurrently, in the domain of neural implants, “advances ... are for
the first time making viable, silent speech communication devices a
reality” (Brumberg, Nieto-Castanon, Kennedy, & Guenther, 2010). That
is, it is currently possible for an individual to communicate directly
with a neural interface. Not only has it been demonstrated that
individuals can broadcast information via neural implant, but it has
also already been demonstrated that they may recieve information as
well. Already in 1998, scientists successfully restored the
communication ability of a patient via implant (Brumberg et al.,
2010). On the recieving end, a method for sending information via the
neural implant has also been demonstrated by connecting to an existing
human sensory interface.  An oft cited example are cortical interfaces
which allow neural implants to simulate vision.

It therefore follows that there will be a convergence between internet
connectivity and neural interfaces. The technology for neural interfaces
will allow one, via the internet, to communicate with any device or
individual, and in intimate ways.

To help us understand implications of this future therefore, we will
investigate several scenarios, and what we should study to prepare
ourselves for these scenarios.

Description of the Scenarios
========================================================================
In the following section, two scenarios will be explained and evaluated.

The first scenario involves a new collective internet that represents a
superorganism composed of all humans who are on the network. Humans who
are able to communicate via the sharing of qualia (thoughts) will share
bonds amongst each other that have thus far never been as intimate.
Humans will posess the capacity, for the first time, to truly understand
each other and events that have occured. This idea is explored in
Asimov’s Foundation edge: “humanity could share a common insanity and be
immersed in a common illusion while living in a common chaos.”.

Humanity’s new ability to directly share, recreate, and experience
qualia (thoughts), will allow humans to express and distribute tacit
information. This means that we will be more capable of empathizing with
each other, and conversely our sphere of empathy will grow. This growth
in empathy will likely result in a decrease in the amount of crimes and
acts intended to cause injury to other persons.

This interconnected humanity could represent an evolution in society
that allows for a much broader and more integrated form of cooperation.
Groups of individuals would be able to more fluidly work together,
convey project objectives and work together unobtrusively. It is likely
that such an interconnectivity will lead to a productivity boom several
magnitudes more profound than the introduction of the internet.

The evolution of Privacy
========================================================================
The second scenario involves a change in the definition of privacy.
Privacy is usually governed and restricted by the control of
information flows. It is often reasoned by Rosen in “The unwanted
gaze: the destruction of privacy in America” (rosen, 2001) that
information must be controlled to prevent injury against an individual
through recontextualization of information. With a strongly diminished
capacity for a misunderstanding, and a greatly strengthened capacity
for understanding and empathy, we will see a significant reduction in
the scope of privacy. This is because it will no longer be easily
possible for information to be misinterpreted. It could be
communicated in a higher level form, with all relevant details, very
quickly. Therefore, a more fluid human - human interface, will greatly
diminish the role of privacy as a means of self-preservation.

Another type of privacy that will change is Rosen’s “privacy as a form
of freedom”. Privacy as a form of freedom describes a privacy of
information that is outside of the reach of society, a privacy that
allows an individual to conduct themselves in such a way as they would
when unobserved. Depending on how obtrusive or connected the neural
implants are with humans, this form of privacy may cease to exist. Given
the ability to “plug-in” to any other human, it may no longer be
possible to have “privacy as a form of freedom”.

Dignified privacy as a form of preventing harm may become more and
more important as humans may develop a bias towards a communal
culture. In a society where the community and the interactions of the
community are ever powerful, it is increasingly important that we
avoid “intrinsic offense against individual dignity” (Rosen, 2001). As
culture shifts due to new communication patterns and trends, so does
privacy “privacy regulation involves more than use of the physical
environment alone, but includes a variety of verbal, nonverbal,
environmental, and cultural mechanisms” (Altman, 1977). These
cultural mechanisms, as they change, will too change privacy in
regards to dignity.

Descriptions of the Research Priorities
========================================================================
The first study that should be conducted is about human empathy as a
result of communication. How much will our interconnectedness expand our
monkey-sphere. How many more people can we empathize with and
understand? Furthermore, what are some of the broader implications of
this expansion of our monkey-sphere? What are the kinds of behaviors
excised against those in or outside a particular individuals’
monkey-sphere. This will give us clues as to how individuals of the
future may behave.

The second thing that must be thoroughly examined is how privacy is
moderated and effected by intimacy. This is important to understand
because it is assumed that greater interconnectivity among humans will
lead to greater intimacy. This greater intimacy signals a reduction in
privacy, and this study will thereby enable us to measure how much or
how our privacy will change.

Finally, a study must be made on privacy of freedom. How will
information gathered from neural interfaces be regulated. Can it be
controlled? Is there a way to create an interface that will not impinge
upon the personal liberties of the individual?

Discussion of the Scientific and Societal Relevance of these Priorities
========================================================================
The societal relevance of these types of studies is extremely
significant. If humanity is to engage in a future in which human minds
are interconnected via neural implants, the implications could be
tremendous. It may mean a complete restructuring of society,
organizations, and traditional communication patterns. It is therefore
important that we understand in advance how this will affect our psyche,
and what possible pitfalls there may be to this type of intimate
interconnectivity.

The research on these types of interconnected groups will possibly form
the backbone of how our next generation of society is organized. For
this reason we must understand it thoroughly.

With great power also comes a very large possibility for abuse of that
power. The internet is one such medium where an individual may project
an agenda, whether good or bad. This power carries risk. This type of
freedom may be even more dangerous when devices are connected directly
to the human mind. This must be watchguarded, understood, and designed
in such a way that no single individual may inflict tyranny upon the
majority.

“It seems to me, Golan, that the advance of civilization is nothing
but an exercise in the limiting of privacy.” (Asimov, 1985)


References
========================================================================
Altman, I. (1977). Privacy regulation: Culturally universal or
culturally spe- cific? Journal of Social Issues, 33(3), 6684.

Asimov, I. (1985). Foundations edge. Granada.

Brumberg, J. S., Nieto-Castanon, A., Kennedy, P. R., &
Guenther, F. H. (2010).

Braincomputer interfaces for speech communication. Speech
Communication, 52(4), 367379.

Khoso, M. (2016, Jul). How much data is produced every day?

Rosen, J. (2001). The unwanted gaze: the destruction of privacy in
America. Vintage Books.
